# BigDL-LLM Transformers INT4 Optimization for HuggingFace Transformers Agent
In this directory, you will find examples on how you could apply BigDL-LLM INT4 optimizations on HuggingFace Transformers Agent. For illustration purposes, we utilize the [lmsys/vicuna-7b-v1.5](https://huggingface.co/lmsys/vicuna-7b-v1.5) as the reference model.

## 0. Requirements
To run the examples, we recommend using Intel® Xeon® processors (server), or >= 12th Gen Intel® Core™ processor (client).

For OS, BigDL-LLM supports Ubuntu 20.04 or later, CentOS 7 or later, and Windows 10/11.

## Best Known Configuration on Linux
For better performance, it is recommended to set environment variables on Linux with the help of BigDL-Nano:
```bash
pip install bigdl-nano
source bigdl-nano-init
```

## Example: Run an agent using `run()` API
In the example [run_agent.py](./run_agent.py), we show a basic use case of using `run()` API to run an agent, which uses Vicuna model with BigDL-LLM INT4 optimizations.
### 1. Install
We suggest using conda to manage environment:
```bash
conda create -n llm python=3.9
conda activate llm

pip install bigdl-llm[all] # install bigdl-llm with 'all' option
pip install pillow # additional package required for opening images
```

### 2. Run
```
python ./run_agent.py --repo-id-or-model-path REPO_ID_OR_MODEL_PATH --image-path IMAGE_PATH
```

Arguments info:
- `--repo-id-or-model-path REPO_ID_OR_MODEL_PATH`: argument defining the huggingface repo id for the Vicuna model (e.g. `lmsys/vicuna-7b-v1.5`) to be downloaded, or the path to the huggingface checkpoint folder. It is default to be `'lmsys/vicuna-7b-v1.5'`.
- `--image-path IMAGE_PATH`: argument defining the image to be infered. It is default to be `demo.jpg`.

> **Note**: When loading the model in 4-bit, BigDL-LLM converts linear layers in the model into INT4 format. In theory, a *X*B model saved in 16-bit will requires approximately 2*X* GB of memory for loading, and ~0.5*X* GB memory for further inference.
>
> Please select the appropriate size of the Vicuna model based on the capabilities of your machine.

#### 2.1 Client
On client Windows machine, it is recommended to run directly with full utilization of all cores:
```powershell
python ./run_agent.py
```

#### 2.2 Server
For optimal performance on server, it is recommended to set several environment variables (refer to [here](../README.md#best-known-configuration-on-linux) for more information), and run the example with all the physical cores of a single socket.

E.g. on Linux,
```bash
# set BigDL-Nano env variables
source bigdl-nano-init

# e.g. for a server with 48 cores per socket
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=48
numactl -C 0-47 -m 0 python ./run_agent.py
```

#### 2.3 Sample Output
#### [lmsys/vicuna-7b-v1.5](https://huggingface.co/lmsys/vicuna-7b-v1.5)
```log
Image path: demo.jpg
==Explanation from the agent==
I will use the following tool: `image_captioner` to generate a caption for the image.


==Code generated by the agent==
caption = image_captioner(image)


==Result==
a little girl holding a stuffed teddy bear
```

### 3. Reference
`demo.jpg` is from COCO2017 dataset (000000264959.jpg). You can download it through [COCO Explorer](https://cocodataset.org/#explore?id=264959) or directly use `wget` in the following way:

```
wget http://farm6.staticflickr.com/5268/5602445367_3504763978_z.jpg
```