.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2007-14 Matteo Frigo
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2007-14 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\"
.TH FFTW-WISDOM 1 "February, 2003" "fftw" "fftw"
.SH NAME
fftwf\-wisdom \- create wisdom (pre-optimized FFTs)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fftwf\-wisdom
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fISIZE\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" Add any additional description here
.I fftwf\-wisdom
is a utility to generate FFTW
.B wisdom
files, which contain saved information about how to optimally compute
(Fourier) transforms of various sizes.  FFTW is a free library to
compute discrete Fourier transforms in one or more dimensions, for
arbitrary sizes, and of both real and complex data, among other
related operations.  More information on FFTW can be found at the FFTW
home page:
.I http://www.fftw.org

Programs using FFTW can be written to load wisdom from an arbitrary file,
string, or other source.  Moreover, it is likely that many FFTW-using
programs will load the \fBsystem wisdom\fR file, which is stored in
.I /etc/fftw/wisdomf
by default.
.I fftwf\-wisdom
can be used to create or add to such wisdom files.  In its most
typical usage, the wisdom file can be created to pre-plan a canonical
set of sizes (see below) via:

.ce
fftwf\-wisdom \-v \-c \-o wisdomf

(this will take many hours, which can be limited by the 
.B \-t
option) and the output
.I wisdomf
file can then be copied (as root) to
.I /etc/fftw/
or whatever.

The
.I fftwf\-wisdom
program normally writes the wisdom directly to standard output, but this
can be changed via the
.B \-o
option, as in the example above.

If the system wisdom file
.I /etc/fftw/wisdomf
already exists, then
.I fftwf\-wisdom
reads this existing wisdom (unless the
.B \-n
option is specified) and outputs both the old wisdom and any
newly created wisdom.  In this way, it can be used to add new transform
sizes to the existing system wisdom (or other wisdom file, with the 
.B \-w
option).
.SH SPECIFYING SIZES
Although a canonical set of sizes to optimize is specified by the 
.B \-c
option, the user can also specify zero or more non-canonical transform
sizes and types to optimize, via the 
.I SIZE
arguments following the option flags.  Alternatively, the sizes to
optimize can be read from standard input (whitespace-separated), if a
.I SIZE
argument of "\-" is supplied.

Sizes are specified by the syntax:

.ce
<\fItype\fR><\fIinplace\fR><\fIdirection\fR><\fIgeometry\fR>

<\fItype\fR> is either \'c\' (complex), \'r\' (real, r2c/c2r), or
\'k\' (r2r, per-dimension kinds, specified in the geometry, below).

<\fIinplace\fR> is either \'i\' (in place) or \'o\' (out of place).

<\fIdirection\fR> is either \'f\' (forward) or \'b\' (backward).  The
<\fIdirection\fR> should be omitted for \'k\' transforms, where it is
specified via the geometry instead.

<\fIgeometry\fR> is the size and dimensionality of the transform,
where different dimensions are separated by \'x\' (e.g. \'16x32\' for
a two-dimensional 16 by 32 transform).  In the case of \'k\'
transforms, the size of each dimension is followed by a "type" string,
which can be one of f/b/h/e00/e01/e10/e11/o00/o01/o10/o11 for
R2HC/HC2R/DHT/REDFT00/.../RODFT11, respectively, as defined in the
FFTW manual.

For example, \'cif12x13x14\' is a three-dimensional 12 by 13 x 14
complex DFT operating in-place.  \'rob65536\' is a one-dimensional
size-65536 out-of-place complex-to-real (backwards) transform
operating on Hermitian-symmetry input.  \'ki10hx20e01\' is a
two-dimensional 10 by 20 r2r transform where the first dimension is a
DHT and the second dimension is an REDFT01 (DCT-III).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help on the command-line options and usage.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the version number and copyright information.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Verbose output.  (You can specify this multiple times, or supply a numeric
argument greater than 1, to increase the verbosity level.)  Note that the
verbose output will be mixed with the wisdom output (making it impossible
to import), unless you write the wisdom to a file via the 
.B \-o
option.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-canonical\fR
Optimize/pre-plan a canonical set of sizes: all powers of two and ten
up to 2^20 (1048576), including both real and complex, forward and
backwards, in-place and out-of-place transforms.  Also includes two-
and three-dimensional transforms of equal-size dimensions
(e.g. 16x16x16).
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIhours\fR, \fB\-\-time\-limit\fR=\fIhours\fR
Stop after a time of
.I hours
(hours) has elapsed, outputting accumulated wisdom.  (The problems are planned
in increasing order of size.)  Defaults to 0, indicating no time limit.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-output-file\fR=\fIfile\fR
Send wisdom output to
.I file
rather than to standard output (the default).
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-measure\fR; \fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-estimate\fR; \fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-exhaustive\fR
Normally, 
.I fftwf\-wisdom
creates plans in FFTW_PATIENT mode, but with these options you can instead
use FFTW_MEASURE, FFTW_ESTIMATE, or FFTW_EXHAUSTIVE modes, respectively,
as described in more detail by the FFTW manual.

Note that wisdom is tagged with the planning patience level, and a
single file can mix different levels of wisdom (e.g. you can mostly
use the patient default, but plan a few sizes that you especially care
about in
.B \-\-exhaustive
mode).
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-system\-wisdom\fR
Do not import the system wisdom from
.I /etc/fftw/wisdomf
(which is normally read by default).
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-wisdom\-file\fR=\fIfile\fR
Import wisdom from
.I file
(in addition to the system wisdom, unless 
.B \-n
is specified).  Multiple wisdom files can be read via multiple
.B \-w
options.  If
.I file
is "\-", then read wisdom from standard input.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fIN\fR, \fB\--threads\fR=\fIN\fR
Plan with
.I N
threads.  This option is only present if FFTW was configured with
thread support.
.SH BUGS
Send bug reports to fftw@fftw.org.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Steven G. Johnson and Matteo Frigo.

Copyright (c) 2003, 2007-14 Matteo Frigo
.br
Copyright (c) 2003, 2007-14 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fftw-wisdom-to-conf(1)
